Name: Shiva Thakur 
Project Name: Twitter Sentimental Analysis 
Abstract: This project addresses the problem of sentiment analysis in twitter that is classifying tweets according to the sentiment expressed in them: positive, negative or neutral. Twitter is an online microblogging and social-networking platform which allows users to write short status updates of maximum length 140 characters. It is a rapidly expanding service with over 200 million registered users out of which 100 million are active users and half of them log on twitter on a daily basis - generating nearly 250 million tweets per day . Due to this large amount of usage we hope to achieve a reflection of public sentiment by analysing the sentiments expressed in the tweets. Analysing the public sentiment is important for many applications such as firms trying to find out the response of their products in the market, predicting political elections and predicting socioeconomic phenomena like stock exchange. The aim of this project is to develop a functional classifier for accurate and automatic sentiment classification of an unknown tweet stream 
Sentiment Analysis is an interesting way to think about the applicability of Natural Language Processing in making automated conclusions about text. It is being utilized in social media trend analysis and, sometimes, for marketing purposes. Making a Sentiment Analysis program in Python is not a difficult task, thanks to modern-day, ready-for-use libraries. This program is a simple explanation to how this kind of application works. This is only for academic purposes, as the program described here is by no means production-level.
Conclusion: We presented results for sentiment analysis on Twitter. We use previously proposed stateof-the-art unigram model as our baseline and report an overall gain of over 4% for two classification tasks: a binary, positive versus negative and a 3-way positive versus negative versus neutral. We presented a comprehensive set of experiments for both these tasks on manually annotated data that is a random sample of stream of tweets. We investigated two kinds of models: tree kernel and feature based models and demonstrate that both these models outperform the unigram baseline. For our feature-based approach, we do feature analysis which reveals that the most important features are those that combine the prior polarity of words and their parts-of-speech tags. We tentatively conclude that sentiment analysis for Twitter data is not that different from sentiment analysis for other genres. In future work, we will explore even richer linguistic analysis, for example, parsing, semantic analysis and topic modeling. 
